Test Yourself Questions on pg 18

1. What is meant by a variable?
A place in memory that is used to store a value

2. What do we mean by the value of a variable?
This is the value that we give to a variable

3. What kind of statement is used to instruct the computer to use a variable to store a value?
assignment is the statement used to instruct the computer to use a variable to store a value e.g. firstName = "Oide"

4. Write a statement to instruct the computer to use the variable age to store the value 6.
age = 6

5. State two things that must be avoided when naming variables.
Dont start with a number
Dont include spaces
No special characters
Dont contain reserved Python keywords

6. In Python, what two options do we have if we want to use two words in a variable name? Give an example of each.
firstName - camelCase
first_name - userscore

7. What are Python keywords?
These are words reserved for the python coding language

8. Why should we avoid using Python keywords for variable names?
Using them will lead to errors

9. What are the four main variable types used in Python? Give an example of two of these.
Integer e.g 10
Float e.g. 3.14
String e.g. "oide"
Boolean e.g. True or False

10. Write the code to assign a value of 20 to a variable named houseNumber.
houseNumber = 20

11. What type of statement did you use in your code for the previous question?
assignment operator

12. What variable type will Python select for the variable houseNumber above? Write the code to display this variable type.
integer
print(type(houseNumber))

13. What do we call the variable type used for whole numbers only?
Integers

14. What do we call the variable type used for numbers with a decimal point?
Float

15. What are the names of the two numerical variable types? 
integer and float

16. Give an example of how to convert a variable value from one type to another.
myInt = int("5")

17. If a variable y has a value of 6, write the code to convert it to a variable of type float.
y = 6
y = float(y)

18. Re-write the code from the previous question to convert variable value of y to a variable of type string.
y = 6
y = str(y)

19. What are arithmetic operations?
maths operators e.g. add, subtract etc

20. Give five examples of arithmetic operations, using the correct symbols.
+
-
*
/
%

21. Give an example of some code that multiplies two numbers together and displays the result.
print(5*4)

22. Give an example of some code that divides one number by another and displays the result.
print(20/5)

23. What variable type is always the result of a division operation?
float

24. What does floor division mean?
The number before the decimal point

25. What operator symbol is used for floor division?
//

26. What is the variable type of the result of a floor division operation?
integer

27. What is the result of a modulus operation?
the remainder after dividing 2 numbers

28. What symbol is used for the modulus operator?
%

29. What is the symbol for the exponent operator?
**

30. What does the exponent operation mean?
raise to the power

31. In an assignment statement, which side of the assignment operator is generally calculated first? Which variable changes?
the right hand side of the assignment

32. What does incrementing mean?
to increase the number by a certain amount

33. Write the code for incrementing a variable x by 1 and then by 9.
x+=1
x+=9

34. Write this code in an alternative way.
x = x + 1
x = x + 9

35. What does this code mean? x*=4
take the value in x, multiply by 4 and store back in x

36. What does this code mean? x//=5
take the value in x, floor divide by 5 and store the whole number back in x

37. What does decrementing mean?
to decrease the number by a certain amount

38. Write down an acronym to remind you of the order of operations used in Python.
BIMDAS

39. If all the operations are of equal order in a line of code, what order will Python use?
work from the left

40. The function round(x, 2) has two arguments. What do we mean by arguments? How does the function use the arguments in this case?
x is the number to round, 2 is the number of decimal places

41. Name two types of operation used on strings. State what each one does.
concatentate, replication

42. Give an example of code illustrating each of the types of operation above.
Concatentation
string1 = "Hello"
string2 = "World!"
answer = string1 + string2
print(answer)
output will be "HelloWorld!"

Replication
string1 = "Hello"
answer = string1 * 3
print(answer)
output will be "HelloHelloHello"
